---
layout: single
title:  "Reading results before investing in companies "
date:   2020-05-27 10:37:04 +0530
categories: GeneralTopics
---
### Reading results before investing in companies 

Any investor who is keen to look into results of the company and its performance, follows the periodic results (Quarterly, Annual) published by companies. Quarterly, Annual results are published through a separate window which is made available to the general public to understand the company's performance. These are produced in a predefined format that a company must adhere to. 
 
According to the market watchdog, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) guidelines, it is compulsory for every listed company to produce quarterly results. Quarterly results are early indicators of the company's progress towards its projected yearly profit targets.  
 
Investors should look not only at the net profits figures but also other details like sales growth, debt structure, whether the net profit growth is due to any one time gain and reasons for increase or decrease in expenditure. Though, it is not easy to analyse numbers like a professional would do, but even a lay person can go beyond the net profit figures to try and gauge what's happening in the companies.
 
Other than net profit, there are few more terms such as gross sales, net sales, expenditure, operating income and earnings per share (EPS) that can help you to get a better understandings of where the company stands. 
 
Further, we need to always compare the current year numbers with the prior periods to gauge the direction the company is taking. There are two methods to compare the performance of the company i.e. quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) or year-on-year (YoY). 
 
YoY is used to measure the direction and consistency in performance. QoQ reflects the near-term pressures on the company and gives an indication on it abilities to achieve its long term projections as estimated by the consensus in the YoY. 
 
Whether a stock declines or not after a net loss reported or vice versa depends on the anticipation of investors and how the results have matched their expectations. If investors believe that it is a short-term phenomena, markets ignore the sudden drop in profit or revenue. 
 
It is not necessary that a stock will fall after a sudden fall in the quarterly numbers. It is all a function of investors/ market expectations. If the investors/ market is expecting a loss and actual loss is lower than expected, then the stock price can actually move up. 
 
Whether you need to invest or sell basis the numbers put out by the company, depends on many other factors such as the business environment, plans and the fundamentals of the companies that one should take into the account while buying or selling. 
 
Hence, the decision to buy or sell the stocks of the company does not depend only on quarterly results but also on other factors such as policies of the company and other fundamentals of companies. 
